## Thermal Environment
In spacecraft thermal control, several distinct regions are of interest, beginning with Earth’s atmosphere, passing through outer space (the void between celestial bodies), and extending to the atmospheres and surfaces of other planets.
The gases surrounding planets, moons, and stars are retained by gravity but do not have a clearly defined boundary. Gas density decreases exponentially with distance from the body until it blends into the surrounding environment. As such, the boundary of “space” is defined by convention rather than a precise physical marker.
For spacecraft flight purposes, the boundary of space is generally accepted as 100 km altitude, known as the Kármán line, a definition adopted by the International Astronautical Federation (IAF). This height marks the transition from aeronautics (aerodynamic flight) to astronautics (non-powered orbital flight). Theodore von Kármán concluded in the 1950s that above this altitude, a vehicle would need to travel faster than orbital velocity to generate enough lift from the atmosphere to stay aloft. Following this definition: on Venus, the Kármán line is around 250 km, and on Mars, it's approximately 80 km.
The two bodies controlling the space environment for most aircraft are the Earth and the Sun, with other celestial bodies being only important to specific spacecraft missions. 
Deep Space
Deep space is the cold darkness that surrounds the spacecraft. Cosmic background radiation s electromagnetic radiation in the microwave band filling the observable universe almost uniformly. This deep-space nearly-isotropic radiation (also known as cosmic microwave background, CMB) is a relic from the Big Bang, predicted by Gamov in 1948 and discovered in 1964 by A. Penzias and R. Wilson. The CMB behaves like a nearly perfect black-body radiator with a temperature of 2.73±0.05 K. For most engineering purposes this is set at 3K. 
Taking into account the background radiation is significant for certain applications, such as cryogenic radiators and sensors. However for other application, it can also be neglected, e.g. the thermal balance of a rocket nozzle. 
